As a child, I hated all things sweet.
my five year old brother loved them.
Dadi Ma's mango orchard had two Mahua trees.
During the summers, when the mangoes were still green and of little interest to the birds and the bees, the two trees were sites of much activity.
A Sister's Diary.
The summer I was seven, my dislike for Mahua turned into dislike. 
From its edible flowers emanated a smell so intoxicating and sweet, it gave me headache; a smell so potent that one could smell a Mahua-zone from far away.
I may be shy, but I am still looking you in the eye
Here’s looking at you, 37.
"A stone monument that junior high school students thought to convey the earthquake in Miyagi Prefecture will be created."
"An oil fence was attached to prevent pumice stones from entering the port of the Izu Islands."
"Announced that we will test people who want to become JAXA astronauts."
"'I couldn't take a day off from school even if my period was difficult', about 70%"
To protect her husband, she travelled to Delhi  to assure Nehru that rumors were false.
Nehru said - "If he is not against us, he needs to prove he is with us. Let him stand on Congress ticket"
Rajmata - "But he hates politics".
Nehru - "In that case, you stand as our candidate"
In 1956, rumors were rife that Maharaja of Gwalior had plans to join Veer Savarkar's Hindu Mahasabha.
The Scindia influence could be a setback for congress.
The congress in response planned to nationalize all of Scindia's properties, effectively to turn him into a pauper.
When the influence of freedom movement was felt upon her, she gave up wearing imported Saris.
She disapproved the drinking of Alcohol and took to a vegetarian diet.
Vijaya Raje Scindia was tutored at home.
When she was 11 years old, she expressed interest in the freedom movement of India.
She asked her family for permission to participate in Dandi Satyagraha.
When she was denied the permission, she secretly slipped out of the house.
Rajmata was born into a family of Rana Royals with Nepali background.
Ever since she was seven years old, she became greatly interested in Hinduism.
She performed prayers and observed Chaturmas Vrats.
She used to imagine herself as Mirabai & ecstatically sing songs for Krishna.
Glitter and shimmery pigments are often made using toxic compounds or pollutive microplastics.
But a new, nontoxic, biodegradable alternative could change that.
She was the forgotten Maharani of Gwalior.
A freedom fighter, philanthropist and a temple builder, She was the last queen of Gwalior.
She was also the Co-Founder of Bharatiya Janata Party(BJP).
This is a thread about Rajmata Vijaya Raje Scindia.
It’s hard to imagine an Earth of 2500. But a collaboration between science and art visualizes how ongoing climate change might transform now-familiar terrain into alien landscapes.
Kita-ku, Tokyo Foreigners can inject vaccines without making a reservation.
Night illumination begins around Lake Chuzenji in Nikko, Tochigi Prefecture.
You can see "partial lunar eclipse" all over Japan from the evening of 19th.
Vaccinations for ages 5 to 11 may begin in February.
Our good luck only.
Vyoma said.
Not only head but mind too was blasting bro.
My clear words are offending words to you indeed.
Do whatever should be done bro.
Actually, today is National Grammar day.
Individual's grammar is not correct.
Next do copyedit of English also!
There are many English tweets without grammar on Twitter too.
Like this please move forward!
Sanskrit fear is creating too for new students.
Sanskrit can be learnt without any fear for new students, every Sanskritists here uses and teaches Sanskrit friendly.
It is a matter of our satisfaction I think.
I am very sad now for not reading Sanskrit in my childhood.
Today I learnt.
Both the renal ischemia and the direct tubular epithelial cell toxicity are implicated in the pathogenesis of contrast nephrotoxicity.
If he does so, he may never be the cause of suffering.
He said he had never seen her before.
Sign language uncle does not help me in my daily activities.
Moreover, you can rebuild with rebuilding and machinery!
Those who don't know the pronounciation of Visarga.
My plea, if there is a plea that I may make, is that those who are the inheritors of a past that they did not create themselves, (viz. Indians), have an obligation to share that past ..with the international scholar community.
Sheldon Pollock on Hindutva and the Life and Death of Sanskrit
Who owns a culture? Is it owned by the people whose ancestors organically developed the culture as a ‘lived experience’ or the colonial progenies who ruled over that society for hundreds of years? Can ‘international scholars’ claim unique academic rights over someone else’s culture while simultaneously silencing native voices?
Compared to Indian elites, the African intellectuals have been far more honest and unambiguous in diagnosing and accepting the colonial problem within their newly free nations.
Ngugi Wa Thiongo makes a few biting observations in Decolonising the Mind, The Politics of African Literature. He talks about what he calls the ‘Cultural Bomb’ – “the effect of a cultural bomb is to annihilate a people’s belief in their names, in their languages, in their environment, in their heritage of struggle, in their unity, in their capacities and ultimately in themselves. It makes them see the past as one wasteland of non-achievement and it makes them want to distance themselves from that wasteland…The intended results are despair, despondency and a collective death-wish.”
How are Indologists producing and setting off these ‘cultural bombs’ in India? Much like in the Hollywood movie ‘Inception’, Indology aims to re-interpret the Indian past and implant their own ideas into the collective Indian subconscious, such that the present Indian reality is but a straightforward extension of the Indologist’s ‘re-imagined’ past. For example, contrary to the traditionally held view of the Indians, if the Mahabharata is ‘shown’ by Indologists as nothing but a mishmash of stories written by many competing authors, how can it continue to be sacred? Shouldn’t it be consigned to the fables and myth section of bookstores? Isn’t Ramayana nothing more than a misogynist Bollywood film story to be analyzed within gender studies departments? If Sanskrit is dead, aren’t all claims Indians have as owners of that dead Sanskritic culture subject to the ‘doctrine of lapse’? In fact, since it was the west who carefully tended and nurtured Sanskrit in Germany, UK and USA, any revivification or resurgence of Sanskrit and related culture in India is clearly artificial, illegitimate and ultimately futile. Voila! Culture Bomb!
Since 2001, Sheldon Pollock has led the Sanskrit Knowledge Systems on the Eve of Colonialism (SKSEC) project that sought to understand the Indian intellectual milieu just before the beginning of Western Colonialism. As the SKSEC website states, the objective is to ‘inventory as completely as possible scholarly production during 16th to 18th century in eight disciplines Vyakarana, Mimamsa, Nyaya, DharmaShastra, Alankara-Shashtra, Ayurveda, Jyotisha and Prayoga.’
First, let us look at the academic leaders involved in this project.
Not a single native research leader is present in this project. The western researchers include all kinds of people from countries like Switzerland, France, Canada, USA, UK, and Austria, all claiming to study the culture and language of India. However, even in areas like Ayurveda or Jyotisha, where brilliant practitioners with deep theoretical and practical expertise are currently present throughout India, we fail to see any sign of these native experts.
Not a single author from an Indian institution is seen in the SKSEC published papers across topics ranging from Ayurveda, Jyotisha, Vyakarana, and Mimamsa.
Looking at these published articles, the inventory of topics seems like the raw material for an initiative designed to analyze, define and categorize the modern Indian. How come no Indian Pundit is involved in this project? Why is this initiative fully controlled by western universities, even for subjects that are still alive and breathing in contemporary Indian society?
Is this reasonable? Is this ethical?
Is it not a prime example of a cultural bomb?
The Weak Alibis and Excuses
A common excuse given by Indologists is that Indian Pundits are just not available today in any of these topics. Even if available, they are not truly world class! Let us see if this claim is valid in the context of SKSEC topics like Vyakarana, Mimamsa, Jyotisha and Ayurveda.
Just for starters, highlighted are three brilliant, highly accomplished practicing Indian scholars who are among the best in the world in their chosen topics. Mani Dravid Sastrigal, Pushpa Dikshit and KV Seshadrinatha Sastrigal are all acknowledged world-class experts who could easily have brought credibility to the research papers and guided the SKSEC team across cultural nuances in Shastras like Jyotisha, Vyakarana, Mimamsa and Ayurveda.
If one were to look at the body of acknowledged Indian experts over the past 100 years, a list of Mahamahopadhyayas (great teachers) would have been a good starting point.
A sample list shown here includes absolute greats like PV Kane (Bharat Ratna 1963) and V V Mirashi to contemporary scholars like Bhadreshdas Swami and Vishwanadha Gopala Krishna Sastry. Given this background, what explains the apartheid that exists between the western academe and the Indian pundits?
Another common excuse by Indologists is that since all the key source documents have all been already translated into English, there is no need for native collaborators. We have everything we need, thank you very much…
So, a corollary is: if Indology researchers are relying on western translations, how valid are these translations and interpretations? Do Indian native commentarial traditions agree with the western interpretations? If not, are these translations free of the taint of cultural insensitivity?
In addition, for Sanskrit works that are being translated for the first time, are there adequate safeguards in place to incorporate the native voice and perspective?
The Skandapurana project, a recent initiative, based on Palm Leaf Manuscripts found in Nepal is interesting to review. The website claims that “We are creating a critical edition of a foundational work of puranic literature. The Skandapurāṇa Project is grounded firmly in the scholarly methods that are the hallmark of classical Indology: philology, textual criticism, and the study of manuscript sources.
As per the author(s), the original Nepali scribal errors had to be corrected and lacunae filled wherever damage to the manuscript was encountered. In addition, ‘conjectural emendation’, which is polite terminology for ‘guesswork’ had to be employed. Essentially, the authors have used their ‘judgment’ throughout the project.
Given the claims for this work to be a “Critical Edition’, it is important that all relevant voices and views, including that of the native Pundits be included. Since guess work is involved, it is doubly important to make sure that interpolations, if any, are in sync with the traditional interpretations.
A list of academic staff involved in this project shows folks from universities in Leiden, Kyoto, Lille, Oxford, Groningen, and Paris, but none from Nepal or India. A brief Twitter exchange re: the absence of local Pundits is quite enlightening – “The original palm leaf manuscripts of the Skandapurana were found in Nepal. The great Prof. Diwakar Acharya is from Nepal”.
The objective clearly is to claim credibility and moral ascendance by highlighting the presence of a ‘native’ expert in the project team, even though one who is working in Oxford. This is, indeed, praiseworthy.
However, a look at the list of publications and authors provides a completely different and confusing picture. The authors include Bakker, Adriaensen, Isaacson, Bisschop, Yokochi, Mirnig, Torzsok, Bosma, and Cecil.
Prof. Acharya is only credited thusly: Introduction and Annotated English Synopis in cooperation with Diwakar Acharya and Judit Torszok’.
While we certainly are not privy to the work distribution or the reasons as to why Professor Acharya is not among the list of main authors, what explains the absence of traditional Pundits from Nepal or India who have extraordinary expertise in Sanskrit as well as Puranas? What makes the Netherlands based Leiden University believe that it is OK to interpret and translate an important cultural artefact of Nepal and India – without incorporating the critical voice of the native stakeholders?
How is it that the same societies that claim that no one should call sparkling wine “Champagne’ or call any cheese ‘Gouda’ take liberties with the cultural patrimony of other societies?
While no one is suggesting that Dutch and other Europeans should not study these topics, just thanking native academicians for help with field work while not having them as an organic part of the research team will certainly not suffice. The onus is on these western universities to meaningfully include native voices and show real empathy and respect for native traditions.
The Modus Operandi
From what has been inspected till now, it is quite clear that controlling Sanskrit is at the heart of the Indological modus operandi. By controlling this deep origin, all that gushes out from that source is dammed up, diverted, bottled and sold in shiny new packaging.
But how exactly is this effect achieved? Let us now tie all the threads together and look at the playbook used by Indologists and highlight their foundational claims:
Sanskrit is dead. No Indian really knows the ancient language. Today, the Sanskrit language expertise resides in Germany, UK and USA
Indians cannot do quality research. The abysmal academic standards and lack of Sanskrit expertise do not allow Indians to be considered as serious researchers.
Traditional Pundits are unreliable and mired in superstition. They are biased and are not able to scientifically and dispassionately analyse their own cultural and religious issues. They also do not understand modern western philological frameworks which is critical for Indology ‘expertise’.
India is mired in Caste, Religion, and Nationalism. Indians are misusing Sanskrit and culture to inflame religious passions. We need to control it. The Indian fox cannot guard the Sanskrit henhouse and hence the western academia needs to be in charge.
Basically, “Sanskrit and Indian Civilization is too important to be left to the Indians.”
The Indological Superstructure is then built on these axiomatic claims, using a few brilliant tricks of the trade that are designed to exclude and disenfranchise the natives.
The language of discourse is divorced from the native intellectual tradition. To participate in the Indology discourse and critique the ideas, the Indian pundit needs to engage with a superfluous foreign language like German or English and not in the original language of the tradition – Sanskrit. Hence it is critical that Sanskrit is killed off and the discourse occurs in an alien tongue.
The core texts are all translated into foreign languages and the foreign texts are now assumed to be gold standards – as good, if not better than the original. Griffith for Vedas, Goldman for Ramayana, Olivelle for Upanishads, Monier Williams for Dictionary are all examples. Native commentary, traditions and interpretations as well as the intellectuals are slowly phased out.
Referencing for all new research is now made using the foreign translated set of canonical books. To understand and reference the Upanishads, one uses Patrick Olivelle or Joel Brereton rather than Shankaracharya. The views and errors of the translators are now transformed into accepted facts. Tradition is slowly edged out.
A new knowledge production and communication model is deployed via the mechanism of “peer reviewed journals’ in foreign languages. These act as gatekeepers to decide who participates in the discourse and who gets shut out. The traditional modes of debate (Tarka) and Vakyartha Sabhas are ignored and phased out.
The Indologists now focus not on generating new knowledge, but analysing and taking apart the existing native texts and proving that they are unreliable, cobbled together and wholly problematic. This is diametrically opposite to the goal of the native intellectual tradition which is to interpret and clarify the texts (bhashya/tika) or to create new knowledge.
The kind of research ability and skill prized in western Indology becomes similar to that of a dull, plodding financial auditor or housing inspector who has the eagle eyes to spot contradictions between different textual versions and can throw a blizzard of obscure rules and dry facts to raise objections. This approach is alien to the native intellectual culture focused on logical argumentation, creativity, interpretation and new knowledge.
The entire focus of the Indological enterprise finally becomes an unrelenting post-mortem of the culture to tease apart the variations, chop up the pieces and pass judgment on the lack of structure within the ‘decomposed’ cultural body. The Indological objectives are now fully and diametrically opposed to the native traditions – which is to provide a framework for society to function, for individuals to find meaning in life and go beyond the mundane by striving for the sacred.
In this process, the Indological enterprise ends up privileging a vast army of glorified Sanskrit-trained western clerks who are trained to dig out contradictions and errors in texts while plodding through hundreds of ‘source documents.’ They can reel off reams of abstruse, tangential information, but not convey important meaning and context while being only interested in the decomposition and destruction of the subject of study – in other words, necrophilia at its best!
It is doubly delicious that few, if any, of these clerks and goblins trained for a specific narrow purpose, this formalin fixing of living culture, can communicate or debate meaningfully in Sanskrit. This is the western equivalent of the Indian ‘‘Rapidex certified spoken English’ masses who cannot blurt out even one sentence in English apart from ‘what is your good name, dear sir’?
As a response to this deeply immoral and unjust situation, there has been a pushback by western-trained intellectuals who embody the traditional Indian stance. They use the Indological framework itself to respond to the moral issues and structural racism inherent within the western tradition. Prof. SN Balagangadhara and his group in Ghent, Rajiv Malhotra and the Infinity Foundation and Profs. Vishwa Adluri and Joydeep Bagchee are a few examples of this response. Inspired and supported by the pioneers, there are many newer researchers and scholars who are starting to dig deep into Indology and ask penetrating questions.
An example is the recently published “An analysis of some aspects of chronology in the Early Upanishads” by Megh Kalyanasundaram (August 2020) which looked at some of the claims made by Patrick Olivelle in his acclaimed book “The Early Upanishads: Annotated Text and Translation”.
Professor Olivelle has been hailed by Dominik Wujastyk, a well-known Indologist as “the world’s leading authority on the history of Indian dharma”. Given such a tall claim Kalyanasundaram picks up ten statements from Olivelle’s book and raises direct questions regarding the evidence and logic behind each of those statements.
A glance at the table shown here highlights that for all the claims of meticulousness and attention to detail that Indologists apparently possess, the evidence behind such sweeping claims is often very thin on the ground.
In fact, it is a bit embarrassing that substantial claims are being made by using throwaway schoolboy phrases such as ‘In all likelihood’, ‘the scholarly consensus is’, ‘they probably are’, ‘they are edited texts’ etc.
These new Indian scholars are highlighting errors of omission and commission in books and published articles by these acclaimed western Indological experts. In addition to errors, controversial new claims made by the Indological establishment are also being scrutinized and the authors put on notice.
As an example, Mark McClish, a student of Patrick Olivelle claims that Arthashastra was not written by Vishnugupta Chanakya and that it is actually a mishmash of multiple texts. Megh Kalyanasundaram (2020) has raised a series of arguments against this proposition that certainly deserve a respectful response and meaningful debate from the Indological establishment.
It is interesting that the Indological establishment has not yet responded meaningfully to any of these valid criticisms and seems to be shying away from engaging with these challenges from the Indian scholars. There is also no response to queries around their claimed expertise in Sanskrit, Indian Cultural understanding, training in Shastras as well as issues of motivations and objectives behind their current research processes and practices.
A few final questions for us to ponder.
Is the refusal by Indologists to publish in Sanskrit because of a niggling fear that if the original experts can read and criticize the articles, the claim of Sanskrit ‘scholarship’ and meticulousness will get called out in a jiffy?
Are the lack of Sanskrit debates, speeches and articles by Indologists primarily driven by a fundamental inability of most Indologists to speak in fluent and chaste Sanskrit with the right accent? Will they come off looking like amateurs if they start speaking in the language they are studying – Sanskrit?
Is the unwillingness to debate with Indian Pundits driven by lack of expertise to debate in the traditional Indian manner, contrary to all the handwaving and learning-by-debate claims?
Is the narrow specialization focus of the Indologists causing them to be wary of debating against the broad and holistic education of the traditional pundit?
Is the demand that Indian Pundits travel to western universities to debate in English or German, certain fundamental questions regarding their own Culture and Language, nothing more than a deeply unjust and unfair mechanism to enforce apartheid?
Is the insistence that Indian Pundits publish in peer reviewed journals controlled by the western academe a mechanism to control unwanted and uncomfortable truths?
If the field is opened for a robust discussion and debate, will the fragile Indological frame buckle and cause the entire superstructure to come crashing down?
In fact, are we justified in thinking that the real fear of the Indologist is that we may be starting to see the “The Death of Indology”?
The End
References
